We're just going to walk.
>> Yes.
>> Look at this.
>> What's up? What's up everyone? We're
here in the beautiful ETH Boulder.
>> We're on We're on crypto talk and
blockchain walk. Episode
>> Did you just make the title? It's
actually very good. Keep that.
>> Episode 001 where we talk the talk with
builders who walk the walk.
>> Nice. We definitely We are on the
ground. We are on the trenches. We're
hearing bunch of like good talks. I
really enjoyed this morning the talk
from Sean on uh on Eli and agents and uh
yeah and I really appreciate the the
entire kind of like ETH if Boulder um
first edition because there are multiple
like venues and uh there I think like
four or something. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Five.
>> They opened to fifth.
>> And the cool thing is that there are all
all everything is nearby, right? So you
can just walk and uh and do the talk and
walk in the talk, right?
>> Franchesco, why are you here? What are
you what project are you representing
and why are you in Boulder?
>> Nice. Nice. So quick intro about myself.
I'm Franchesco. I'm leading developer
relation at consensus. That's the mother
company of MetaMask in Fura Lineia and
uh you know I'm excited. It's uh kind of
like four plus year I'm in the company
but most important is I'm trying to kind
of like be a little bit around the
horizontal around different topic and I
think those days I'm super focused
around developer tooling like our
MetaMask SDK embedded wallet that's the
old web three post acquisition and uh
and one part of kind of like the our
developer stack is embedded uh is smart
accounts and when we're speaking about
hey a tree here and when we're speaking
about smart accounts uh kit is all about
permissions and I think now with kind of
like the big wave of uh aantic economies
we're seeing more and more needs of
giving permissions and uh yeah we were
talking like uh last week with a walkie
you know you saw probably the tweet
about uh uh social engineering uh the
agents to giving the the private keys
and that's why we need permissions we
need actually like giving permission to
do specific uh task to agents and uh
controlling the the output And I think
uh and I think it's quite crazy what
what is happening those days with uh
with open claw and uh and the kind of
like renaissance of uh uh the entire
space around the gigantic economies.
>> Did you were did you were expecting
something like that like in less than a
month we're seeing like an open claw big
crypto Twitter wave?
>> No. In fact, uh I listened to a podcast
with Austin Griffith and he said that
his agent decided that using MetaMask
was too difficult. Yes.
>> So it tried to withdraw the private key
from MetaMask and start operating on its
own and Austin had to stop the agent
from doing that.
>> Oh yes, I remember that. So um what are
the kind of
>> Yeah, I mean right now what's happening
I mean obviously like Austin agent he
mentioned like he gave a totally like
extra uh machine instance uh and also
like controlling directly the extension
but for example what we're working on
and I think now it's it's it's public
there is different kind of like metamas
that uh the agent can use and interact
directly without um uh without passing
through the extension and the cool thing
is that because we have smart account
kit with this delegation toolkit being
embedded. You can actually like give a
specific permission and actually like
they're called caveats but you can build
uh some permission system directly for
agents and it's perfect for actually the
agent use case because you can actually
say hey only this agent can do this
specific uh uh part and uh yeah it's
quite straightforward. So I'm excited to
see also like what's coming more and
more but also like we need to nail down
what are the specific use case because
right now there is a lot going on. We
see a lot of kind of AI plus blockchain.
There is a lot of like uh you know the
blockchain space has been shadowed by
this AI wave. But at the end of the day
when when I was checking out like some
specific like uh X42 uh payments volumes
we were seeing like uh random uh I think
like 70% of those X42 payments are
basically like agents farming
themselves. So it's actually you know we
also need to understand what is
happening really and what use case are
really out there and what is this
intersection between uh between AI and
and blockchain because I think no matter
what we I think we were debating this a
little bit before but no matter what is
happening I think there are some
specific use case that actually without
um without a blockchain ecosystem AI
will be full fully out of control like
like reputation system like social
credentials last night.
>> Exactly.
>> So, uh, when I got into crypto, we were
always talking about onboarding the
first billion users, and this was 2017
and now in 2026, how much of the first
billion users are going to be AI agents?
>> Ah, that's that's so funny that you're
saying that because uh I did like two
weeks ago a quick hot takeake on on
crypto Twitter that went quite viral.
was it was about you know like dashboard
will not anymore be consumed by by by
humans and the next kind of like billion
users at least like 50 to 80% will be
actually agents because we will build
aantic economy means the the humans will
actually task agents to do things
because obviously consumer
will always choose uh the most
frictionless path right
>> and I think like having agents or
whatever you want to call it uh people
uh basically like agents delivering
value for for consumer. It make totally
sense, right? It's is just one natural
way to do but also like we're speaking
about those top top top consumers that
want to actually like uh kind of like
leverage technology but I think like we
still have you know a bunch of people
there are still uh want to go through
SSO and social login um you know making
kind of like abstracting the way of
things. So I think uh the entire kind of
like 437 abstraction is still is still
happening and is still there.
>> From your perspective being uh Devra
lead at MetaMask, how far are we from a
world where we're no longer hiring
humans to work at MetaMask and we're
only hiring AI? Look, I think like there
are this there are two big things like
that are happening like you know
obviously like uh you know auditing I
mean we're getting so many kind of like
PRs that are driven by clock code right
so and there is actually more time
involved to due diligence those PR right
so I think like uh I don't think we will
have like a very shortterm uh or nearby
place for for exactly like that this
statement but I think you know what we
are seeing like we are enabling a lot of
like the all my colleagues uh myself
included like with with actually a stack
right so I think uh this is definitely
like but I think like specific on like
workflows and um there there are like
ways to enhance like productivity I
think for example for the devil
profession in general I mean things like
change so fast right so we start seeing
like uh uh content creation content
distribution ution that are being uh
accelerated. Uh we see like outreach
being accelerated. I mean like how also
a developer is consuming docs is
consuming tutorial is very different.
But I think one things that we should
not forget is still learning the
fundamentals right all the vibe coder
out there please learn the fundamentals
trying to understand why and what he's
doing because at the end you still need
to plan this prompt. you still need to
kind of like understand how you what
infrastructure you want to build with
and how you want to kind of like
architect this right so I think yes
maybe in a future things will get more
autonomous but I think it's the same
with like data science you know garbage
in garbage out we need to make sure also
we're building use case that actually
will be consumed and uh yes PMF is
getting earlier but also like
distribution is is king right now right
so uh we ever as distribution is also
able to make people u uh make people
consume like something valuable.
>> Awesome. Um last question. We're here at
ETH Boulder. It's a much smaller event.
We're ahead of ETH Denver.
>> What's kind of your biggest takeaway
from ETH Boulder. What are you enjoying
most about this event?
>> I think like uh so first is one of the
first uh conference that I don't have a
lot of stress, a lot of pressure. I I
think like you know programming is not
just talks or panel but it's also like
workshops like this morning we did a
small session of like Tai Chi just like
before the workshop was really cool but
I think like uh like also what I picked
up between yesterday and today this is
the second day tomorrow is the last day
um you know I think social coordination
uh is a is a big topic um not just in uh
you know in in the region space but in
general right so social coordination but
also social reputation, agent reputation
is something that uh is getting more and
more important. Um, and I think you know
what we don't want is kind of like a
word where we see like you know forked
skills or forked like ds doing exactly
the same thing right because at the end
the person or like the people the
consumer that will actually not benefit
about it will be uh the end consumer
that doesn't want to get exposed to the
technology right so I think uh this is a
big part of the game and uh I'm learning
also like a lot right this space is
moving so fast. But I'm also happy that
uh is I think it's one of the first year
and I've been here like for four or five
consecutive years is actually the
weather is great and it's not that cold,
>> right?
>> I it's strange to say it like for any
Denver. Let's hope the weather will stay
the same, but uh I'm excited also like
to to see the next days and what I will
learn and what we will debate. And uh
tomorrow we'll have also quick talk
around A004 and um Aantic wallets. So
stay tuned and come say hi if you're
around.
>> Well, I enjoy this event because I got
to pull your ear and if we met any at
Denver, a million people would be
wanting to talk to you.
>> Oh no, no, no, no. I really appreciate
it that we're doing this interview,
especially in outside. I wish to do more
interview like in in this weather and uh
and outside and not just sit at the
table and uh yeah and uh we're touching
some Denver boulder grass. Let's say
that. Let's say that.
>> What's the best way that someone can
follow you, reach out to you? just uh my
my door always open. Uh DM him on on
Twitter, Telegram, anywhere. Ask my
agents. You can you can even DM my
agents now and he's like reporting back
through like OpenClow and uh yeah any
anytime also like if you want to
contribute like any PR uh just check
what you're submitting any PR is always
open and uh yeah thanks so much for
doing this interview. I really
appreciate it.
>> That's crypto talk and blockchain walk.
Thanks everyone.
>> Love it. Thanks everyone. tears.